README.md, before:

Table of Contents
-------------------

 * [Installation](#installation)
 * [Quick Start](#quick-start)
 * [Examples](#examples)
  - [Sphinx + MySQL](#sphinx--mysql)
  - [Sphinx + PostgreSQL or other source type](#sphinx--postgresql)
 * [Persistence](#persistence)
 * [Backup of a indexes](#backup-of-a-indexes)
 * [Checking backup](#checking-backup)
 * [Restore from backup](#restore-from-backup)
 * [Environment variables](#environment-variables)
 * [Logging](#logging) 
 * [Out of the box](#out-of-the-box)
 
Installation
-------------------

 * [Install Docker](https://docs.docker.com/installation/) or [askubuntu](http://askubuntu.com/a/473720)
 * Pull the latest version of the image.
 
```bash
docker pull romeoz/docker-sphinxsearch
```

Alternately you can build the image yourself.

```bash
git clone https://github.com/romeoz/docker-sphinxsearch.git
cd docker-sphinxsearch
docker build -t="$USER/sphinxsearch" .
```

Quick Start
-------------------

Use one of two ways:

1) Usage Docker Compose
 
```bash  
curl -L https://github.com/romeoz/docker-sphinxsearch/raw/master/docker-compose.yml > docker-compose.yml
docker-compose up -d
``` 
2) Step by step.

Run the mysql image:

```bash
docker run --name db -d \
  -e 'MYSQL_USER=admin' -e 'MYSQL_PASS=pass' -e 'MYSQL_CACHE_ENABLED=true' \
  romeoz/docker-mysql
```

>Recommended way (official). Sphinx own implementation of MySQL network protocol (using a small SQL subset called SphinxQL).

Run the sphinx image:

```bash
docker run --name sphinx -d \
  --link db:db \
  romeoz/docker-sphinxsearch
```

Examples
-------------------

####Sphinx + MySQL

Run the mysql image with with the creation of database `db_test`:

```bash
docker run --name db -d \
  -e 'MYSQL_USER=admin' -e 'MYSQL_PASS=pass' -e 'MYSQL_CACHE_ENABLED=true' \
  -e 'DB_NAME=db_test' \
  romeoz/docker-mysql
```

Creating table `items` and records:

```bash
docker exec -it db \
  mysql -uroot -e 'CREATE TABLE db_test.items (id INT NOT NULL AUTO_INCREMENT, content TEXT, PRIMARY KEY(id)) ENGINE = INNODB;'
  
docker exec -it db \
  mysql -uroot -e 'INSERT INTO db_test.items (content) VALUES ("about dog"),("about cat");'
```

Run the sphinx image + indexing database:

```bash
docker run --name sphinx -d \
  --link db:db \
  -e "SPHINX_MODE=indexing" \
  romeoz/docker-sphinxsearch
```

Searching records:

```bash
host=$(docker inspect --format '{{ .NetworkSettings.IPAddress }}' sphinx);
docker exec -it db \
  mysql -P9306 -h${host} -e "SELECT * FROM items_index WHERE MATCH('cat');"
```

####Sphinx + PostgreSQL

You can using other source type, for example PostgreSQL. If you want to use the SphinxQL, there is no need to install the MySQL server.
It helps to have the `mysql-common` package and `mysql-client` (if you need a CLI).

Run the postgresql image with with the creation of database `db_test`:

```bash
docker run --name db-test -d \
  -e 'DB_NAME=db_test' -e 'DB_USER=admin' -e 'DB_PASS=pass' \
  romeoz/docker-postgresql
```

Creating table `items` and records:

```bash
docker exec -it db-test sudo -u postgres psql db_test \
  -c "CREATE TABLE items (id SERIAL, content TEXT);"
docker exec -it db-test sudo -u postgres psql db_test \
  -c "GRANT SELECT ON ALL SEQUENCES IN SCHEMA public TO admin; GRANT SELECT ON ALL TABLES IN SCHEMA public TO admin;"
docker exec -it db-test sudo -u postgres psql db_test \
  -c "INSERT INTO items (content) VALUES ('about dog'),('about cat');"
```

Run the sphinx image + indexing database:

```bash
docker run --name sphinx -d \
  --link db:db \
  -e "SPHINX_MODE=indexing" -e "SPHINX_CONF=/etc/sphinxsearch/sphinx_pgsql.conf" \
  romeoz/docker-sphinxsearch
```

Install MySQL Client:

```bash
docker exec -it sphinx bash -c 'apt-get update && apt-get install -y mysql-client && rm -rf /var/lib/apt/lists/*'
```

Searching records:

```bash
docker exec -it sphinx \
  mysql -P9306 -h127.0.0.1 -e "SELECT * FROM items_index WHERE MATCH('cat');"
```

Persistence
-------------------

For data persistence a volume should be mounted at `/var/lib/sphinxsearch/data`.

The updated run command looks like this.

```bash
docker run --name sphinx -d \
  -v /host/to/path/data:/var/lib/sphinxsearch/data \
  romeoz/docker-sphinxsearch
```

This will make sure that the data stored in the index is not lost when the image is stopped and started again.


Backup of a indexes
-------------------

If you are using RT index, then first we need to flush indexes `FLUSH RTINDEX`:

```bash
host=$(docker inspect --format '{{ .NetworkSettings.IPAddress }}' sphinx)
docker exec -it db mysql -P9306 -h${host} -e "FLUSH RTINDEX some_rtindex"
```

Next, create a temporary container for backup:

```bash
docker run -it --rm \ 
  --volumes-from sphinx \
  -e 'SPHINX_MODE=backup' \
  -v /host/to/path/backup:/tmp/backup \
  romeoz/docker-sphinxsearch
```  
Archive will be available in the `/host/to/path/backup`.

> Algorithm: one backup per week (total 4), one backup per month (total 12) and the last backup. Example: `backup.last.tar.gz`, `backup.1.tar.gz` and `/backup.dec.tar.gz`.

You can disable the rotation by using env `SPHINX_ROTATE_BACKUP=false`.

Checking backup
-------------------

Check-data is the name of index `INDEX_NAME`. 

```bash
docker run -it --rm \  
  -e 'SPHINX_CHECK=default' -e 'INDEX_NAME=items_index' \
  -v /host/to/path/backup:/tmp/backup  \
  romeoz/docker-sphinxsearch
```

Default used the `/tmp/backup/backup.last.tar.gz`.

Restore from backup
-------------------

```bash
docker run --name sphinx-restore -d \
  --link db:db \
  -e 'SPHINX_RESTORE=default' \
  -v /host/to/path/backup:/tmp/backup  \
  romeoz/docker-sphinxsearch
```

Environment variables
---------------------

`SPHINX_MODE`: Set a specific mode. Takes on the value `backup` or `indexing`.

`SPHINX_BACKUP_DIR`: Set a specific backup directory (default "/tmp/backup").

`SPHINX_BACKUP_FILENAME`: Set a specific filename backup (default "backup.last.tar.gz").

`SPHINX_CHECK`: Defines name of backup to `indextool --check`. Note that the backup must be inside the container, so you may need to mount them. You can specify as `default` that is equivalent to the `/tmp/backup/backup.tar.gz`.

`SPHINX_RESTORE`: Defines name of backup to initialize the demon `searchd`. Note that the backup must be inside the container, so you may need to mount them. You can specify as `default` that is equivalent to the `/tmp/backup/backup.last.tar.gz`.

`SPHINX_ROTATE_BACKUP`: Determines whether to use the rotation of backups (default "true").

Logging
-------------------

All the logs are forwarded to stdout and sterr. You have use the command `docker logs`.

```bash
docker logs sphinx
```

####Split the logs

You can then simply split the stdout & stderr of the container by piping the separate streams and send them to files:

```bash
docker logs sphinx > stdout.log 2>stderr.log
cat stdout.log
cat stderr.log
```

or split stdout and error to host stdout:

```bash
docker logs sphinx > -
docker logs sphinx 2> -
```

####Rotate logs

Create the file `/etc/logrotate.d/docker-containers` with the following text inside:

```
/var/lib/docker/containers/*/*.log {
    rotate 31
    daily
    nocompress
    missingok
    notifempty
    copytruncate
}
```
> Optionally, you can replace `nocompress` to `compress` and change the number of days.

Out of the box
-------------------
 * Ubuntu 14.04.3 (LTS)
 * Sphinx Search 2.2

License
-------------------

Sphinx Search container image is open-sourced software licensed under the [MIT license](http://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)

Commit message:

Used new API docker network.

README.md, after:

Table of Contents
-------------------

 * [Installation](#installation)
 * [Quick Start](#quick-start)
 * [Examples](#examples)
  - [Sphinx + MySQL](#sphinx--mysql)
  - [Sphinx + PostgreSQL or other source type](#sphinx--postgresql)
 * [Persistence](#persistence)
 * [Backup of a indexes](#backup-of-a-indexes)
 * [Checking backup](#checking-backup)
 * [Restore from backup](#restore-from-backup)
 * [Environment variables](#environment-variables)
 * [Logging](#logging) 
 * [Out of the box](#out-of-the-box)
 
Installation
-------------------

 * [Install Docker 1.9+](https://docs.docker.com/installation/) or [askubuntu](http://askubuntu.com/a/473720)
 * Pull the latest version of the image.
 
```bash
docker pull romeoz/docker-sphinxsearch
```

Alternately you can build the image yourself.

```bash
git clone https://github.com/romeoz/docker-sphinxsearch.git
cd docker-sphinxsearch
docker build -t="$USER/sphinxsearch" .
```

Quick Start
-------------------

Use one of two ways:

1) Usage Docker Compose

```bash
docker network create sphinx_net

curl -L https://github.com/romeoz/docker-sphinxsearch/raw/master/docker-compose.yml > docker-compose.yml
docker-compose up -d
``` 
2) Step by step.

Run mysql container:

```bash
docker network create sphinx_net

docker run --name db -d \
  --net sphinx_net
  -e 'MYSQL_USER=admin' -e 'MYSQL_PASS=pass' -e 'MYSQL_CACHE_ENABLED=true' \
  romeoz/docker-mysql
```

>Recommended way (official). Sphinx own implementation of MySQL network protocol (using a small SQL subset called SphinxQL).

Run the sphinx container:

```bash
docker run --name sphinx -d \
  --net sphinx_net \
  romeoz/docker-sphinxsearch
```

Examples
-------------------

####Sphinx + MySQL

Run the mysql container with with the creation of database `db_test`:

```bash
docker network create sphinx_net

docker run --name db -d \
  --net sphinx_net
  -e 'MYSQL_USER=admin' -e 'MYSQL_PASS=pass' -e 'MYSQL_CACHE_ENABLED=true' \
  -e 'DB_NAME=db_test' \
  romeoz/docker-mysql
```

Creating table `items` and records:

```bash
docker exec -it db \
  mysql -uroot -e 'CREATE TABLE db_test.items (id INT NOT NULL AUTO_INCREMENT, content TEXT, PRIMARY KEY(id)) ENGINE = INNODB;'
  
docker exec -it db \
  mysql -uroot -e 'INSERT INTO db_test.items (content) VALUES ("about dog"),("about cat");'
```

Run the sphinx instnace + indexing database:

```bash
docker run --name sphinx -d \
  --net sphinx_net \
  -e "SPHINX_MODE=indexing" \
  romeoz/docker-sphinxsearch
```

Searching records:

```bash
host=$(docker inspect --format '{{ .NetworkSettings.IPAddress }}' sphinx);
docker exec -it db \
  mysql -P9306 -h${host} -e "SELECT * FROM items_index WHERE MATCH('cat');"
```

####Sphinx + PostgreSQL

You can using other source type, for example PostgreSQL. If you want to use the SphinxQL, there is no need to install the MySQL server.
It helps to have the `mysql-common` package and `mysql-client` (if you need a CLI).

Run the postgresql container with with the creation of database `db_test`:

```bash
docker network create sphinx_net

docker run --name db-test -d \
  -e 'DB_NAME=db_test' -e 'DB_USER=admin' -e 'DB_PASS=pass' \
  romeoz/docker-postgresql
```

Creating table `items` and records:

```bash
docker exec -it db-test sudo -u postgres psql db_test \
  -c "CREATE TABLE items (id SERIAL, content TEXT);"
docker exec -it db-test sudo -u postgres psql db_test \
  -c "GRANT SELECT ON ALL SEQUENCES IN SCHEMA public TO admin; GRANT SELECT ON ALL TABLES IN SCHEMA public TO admin;"
docker exec -it db-test sudo -u postgres psql db_test \
  -c "INSERT INTO items (content) VALUES ('about dog'),('about cat');"
```

Run sphinx container + indexing database:

```bash
docker run --name sphinx -d \
  --net sphinx_net \
  -e "SPHINX_MODE=indexing" -e "SPHINX_CONF=/etc/sphinxsearch/sphinx_pgsql.conf" \
  romeoz/docker-sphinxsearch
```

Install MySQL Client to sphinx container:

```bash
docker exec -it sphinx bash -c 'apt-get update && apt-get install -y mysql-client && rm -rf /var/lib/apt/lists/*'
```

Searching records:

```bash
docker exec -it sphinx \
  mysql -P9306 -h127.0.0.1 -e "SELECT * FROM items_index WHERE MATCH('cat');"
```

Persistence
-------------------

For data persistence a volume should be mounted at `/var/lib/sphinxsearch/data`.

The updated run command looks like this.

```bash
docker run --name sphinx -d \
  -v /host/to/path/data:/var/lib/sphinxsearch/data \
  romeoz/docker-sphinxsearch
```

This will make sure that the data stored in the index is not lost when the container is stopped and started again.


Backup of a indexes
-------------------

If you are using RT index, then first we need to flush indexes `FLUSH RTINDEX`:

```bash
host=$(docker inspect --format '{{ .NetworkSettings.IPAddress }}' sphinx)
docker exec -it db mysql -P9306 -h${host} -e "FLUSH RTINDEX some_rtindex"
```

Next, create a temporary container for backup:

```bash
docker run -it --rm \ 
  --volumes-from sphinx \
  -e 'SPHINX_MODE=backup' \
  -v /host/to/path/backup:/tmp/backup \
  romeoz/docker-sphinxsearch
```  
Archive will be available in the `/host/to/path/backup`.

> Algorithm: one backup per week (total 4), one backup per month (total 12) and the last backup. Example: `backup.last.tar.gz`, `backup.1.tar.gz` and `/backup.dec.tar.gz`.

You can disable the rotation by using env `SPHINX_ROTATE_BACKUP=false`.

Checking backup
-------------------

Check-data is the name of index `INDEX_NAME`. 

```bash
docker run -it --rm \  
  -e 'SPHINX_CHECK=default' -e 'INDEX_NAME=items_index' \
  -v /host/to/path/backup:/tmp/backup  \
  romeoz/docker-sphinxsearch
```

Default used the `/tmp/backup/backup.last.tar.gz`.

Restore from backup
-------------------

```bash
docker run --name sphinx-restore -d \
  --net sphinx_net \
  -e 'SPHINX_RESTORE=default' \
  -v /host/to/path/backup:/tmp/backup  \
  romeoz/docker-sphinxsearch
```

Environment variables
---------------------

`SPHINX_MODE`: Set a specific mode. Takes on the value `backup` or `indexing`.

`SPHINX_BACKUP_DIR`: Set a specific backup directory (default "/tmp/backup").

`SPHINX_BACKUP_FILENAME`: Set a specific filename backup (default "backup.last.tar.gz").

`SPHINX_CHECK`: Defines name of backup to `indextool --check`. Note that the backup must be inside the container, so you may need to mount them. You can specify as `default` that is equivalent to the `/tmp/backup/backup.tar.gz`.

`SPHINX_RESTORE`: Defines name of backup to initialize the demon `searchd`. Note that the backup must be inside the container, so you may need to mount them. You can specify as `default` that is equivalent to the `/tmp/backup/backup.last.tar.gz`.

`SPHINX_ROTATE_BACKUP`: Determines whether to use the rotation of backups (default "true").

Logging
-------------------

All the logs are forwarded to stdout and sterr. You have use the command `docker logs`.

```bash
docker logs sphinx
```

####Split the logs

You can then simply split the stdout & stderr of the container by piping the separate streams and send them to files:

```bash
docker logs sphinx > stdout.log 2>stderr.log
cat stdout.log
cat stderr.log
```

or split stdout and error to host stdout:

```bash
docker logs sphinx > -
docker logs sphinx 2> -
```

####Rotate logs

Create the file `/etc/logrotate.d/docker-containers` with the following text inside:

```
/var/lib/docker/containers/*/*.log {
    rotate 31
    daily
    nocompress
    missingok
    notifempty
    copytruncate
}
```
> Optionally, you can replace `nocompress` to `compress` and change the number of days.

Out of the box
-------------------
 * Ubuntu 14.04 LTS
 * Sphinx Search 2.2

License
-------------------

Sphinx Search container image is open-sourced software licensed under the [MIT license](http://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)
